SnowCrash – Level14 Write-up

Objective

The goal of Level14 is to retrieve the final token using the getflag
binary. However, the program includes an anti-debugging mechanism to
prevent analysis.

Binary Analysis

The getflag binary performs two important checks:

1.  It calls ptrace(PTRACE_TRACEME).
    -   If the program is already being debugged, ptrace fails.
    -   If not debugged, ptrace succeeds.
2.  It checks the return value stored in the EAX register.
    -   If ptrace failed → the program exits.
    -   If ptrace succeeded → execution continues.

This is a classic anti-debugging technique.

Understanding the Protection

Linux only allows one tracer per process. Since GDB uses ptrace
internally, running the program inside GDB causes the ptrace call inside
the program to fail.

The program then checks EAX:

    test eax, eax
    je   success_path

If EAX is zero → success. If EAX is non-zero → failure.

Bypassing the Protection

We used GDB to manipulate execution flow.

Steps:

1.  Set a breakpoint before the check: b *0x0804898e

2.  When the breakpoint hits, force: set $eax=0

3.  Continue execution.


b *0x0804898e
commands
set $eax=0
continue
end

This makes the program believe ptrace succeeded, even though it failed.

then we did an other breakpoint at call funtion <getuid@plt>
b *0x080484b0
run

When it stops at:
    0x080484b0 in getuid@plt ()

Type:
    return (int)3014
    continue

Result

After bypassing the anti-debug check and fake the return value of getuid(), 
the program prints:

    Check flag. Here is your token:
    7QiHafiNa3HVozsaXkawuYrTstxbpABHD8CPnHJ

Then we switched to user flag14 and executed:

    su flag14
    getflag

Which returned the same token.

Security Lesson

This level demonstrates:

-   Anti-debugging is not strong security.
-   If an attacker controls execution, they can manipulate checks.
-   Real secure systems rely on cryptography and server-side validation,
    not client-side protections.

Conclusion

Level14 teaches a critical security principle:

Client-side protections are weak if the attacker controls execution.

By understanding assembly, registers, and debugging tools, we
successfully bypassed the anti-debug mechanism and retrieved the final
token.

End of Level14.
