SnowCrash – Level13 Write-Up

Objective

Retrieve the token for level14 by analyzing and bypassing protections
inside the level13 binary file.

Step 1 – Initial Inspection

Using the strings command on the binary reveals interesting information:

-   getuid
-   “UID %d started us but we we expect %d”
-   “your token is %s”

This suggests that the program checks the user ID using getuid(), compares it to an expected value, and prints a token if the condition is satisfied.

Step 2 – Disassembly

We load the binary into gdb and disassemble main:

    gdb ./level13
    disas main

Relevant assembly:

    call   getuid@plt
    cmp    $0x1092,%eax
    je     success

0x1092 in hexadecimal equals 4242 in decimal. Therefore, the program
expects the UID to be 4242.

If the UID does not match, the program prints an error and exits.

Vulnerability: 
    The protection mechanism is implemented as:

    if (getuid() != 4242)
        exit(1);

This is a user-space authorization check. Since the program runs under
our user, we can control its execution using a debugger. This creates a
logic flaw that allows authentication bypass via runtime manipulation.

Exploitation:
    On 32-bit x86 Linux, function return values are stored in the EAX
    register. Since getuid() returns its value in EAX, we can modify EAX
    before the comparison.

Steps:
1.  Set a breakpoint after getuid(): b *0x0804859a run
2.  Inspect EAX: info registers eax
    It contains our real UID (e.g., 2013).
3.  Overwrite EAX: set $eax = 4242
4.  Continue execution: continue


The comparison now becomes:
    cmp 4242, 4242

The Zero Flag is set, the jump is taken, and the success branch executes.

Result:
The program prints: your token is 2A31L79asukciNyi8uppkEuSx


Concepts Learned:
    -   Reverse engineering using disassembly
    -   Understanding calling conventions (return value in EAX)
    -   Control flow manipulation
    -   Authentication bypass via runtime register modification
    -   Weakness of user-space authorization checks

Conclusion:
    Level13 demonstrates how relying on local user-space checks for security
    is ineffective. If an attacker controls execution of the process, they
    can manipulate registers and bypass logic.

    This challenge is a clear example of dynamic reverse engineering leading to a logic bypass.
